# Concepts

FreeStuff's API is in large parts merely a read only gateway to our Content Management System (CMS). In order to understand all the things the API exposes you need to understand how our CMS is constructed.


## Products

At the core of everything are products. A product is a free game, an ingame item in gamepass, or anything else the bot sends notifications for.

Each product is part of an **Announcement** and has both a **Channel** as it's `type` and a **ProductKind** as it's `kind`.

Additionally a product has some basic properties like a title, assets (logos, images), and description, it has pricing information about old and new prices in multiple currencies, as well as metadata in various forms. See the corresponding Data Model for a full list of properties.

Each product has a kind as described earlier. This value describes what kind of product it is. Usually it's a **game**, but others like **dlc** or **loot** for game pass or prime gaming are also possible. FreeStuff also has more types like **art**, **ost**, or **other** which are currently unused.

:data-model{name="Product"}
:data-model{name="ProductPrice"}
:data-model{name="ProductKind"}
:data-model{name="ProductImage"}
:data-model{name="ProductImageFlags"}
:data-model{name="ProductUrl"}
:data-model{name="ProductUrlFlags"}
:data-model{name="Store"}
:data-model{name="Platform"}
:data-model{name="ProductFlags"}
:data-model{name="ProductMeta"}
:data-model{name="ProductMetaKey"}
:data-model{name="ProductApprovalStatus"}


## Announcements

When we publish products to send to our official bots on Discord, Telegram and potentially others, as well as our API users like you, we're not publishing products individually. Instead we often bundle multiple products together because they have semantic relevance and/or because it allows us to more effectively distribute the products to our hundreds of thousands of subscribers.

An announcement describes such a collection of products. Every time we publish something a new announcement is created, even if it's just for a single product.

Each announcement goes into a **Channel**. All products belonging to that announcement also have the same **Channel** set as their `type`.

:data-model{name="Announcement"}


## Channels

FreeStuff supports different kinds of free games. There's games that have a temporary 100% discount, games that are available to play for a limited amount of time without you owning them, there's game pass and prime gaming, there's DLCs and additional content, etc.

Each of those is a channel. You might only be interested in a single one of those channels or you might be interested in multiple or all of them.

More channels may be added in the future but here is our current list:

:data-model{name="Channel"}


## Summary

FreeStuff has different Channels with different purposes.

A Channel is used to publish Announcements.

An Announcement is a collection of Products, all with the same type but of potentially different kinds.
